So welcome to Advanced Web Performance.
We are going to cover a lot of stuff.
So I hope you're ready for,
hope that your brain is empty right now so
you can get a lot of information
about how to make the web faster.
My name is Maximiliano.
I can go by Max.
I know it's a long name.
I'm Firt on social networks.
I'm a mobile web developer.
So I have been doing web development
since 95 and mobile apps as well.
And in terms of web
performance in particular,
I've been working with web performance for
13 years.
So I have started doing web performance,
specifically targeting mobile
devices back in 2009, 2010,
and then focused on more general
web performance as well.
I have authored a couple of books.
Some of those books
are on web performance.
And also I have published many workshops
on different topics around mobile
development, app development, mobile
app development and web performance.
I'm from Argentina.
I'm currently living in Buenos Aires,
okay, so that's far away for most of you.
I don't know where you are, but
typically Argentina is far
from all the other countries.
Anyway, I said firt.dev is my website,
@firt my Twitter account.
Regarding specifically talking about web
performance, these are the latest two
books that I authored on the topic,
High Performance Mobile Web and
Hacking Web Performance,
that by the way, a gift for you.
You will get a copy of the second one,
that's actually the last one,
Hacking Web Performance later in PDF.
So we will go over also the stuff
that is actually on that book.
So, prerequisites,
you can go and clone that repo,
github.com/firtman, that's my last name,
/adv from advanced, -webperf.
There you will find just a simple
website that we will use later,
to actually see in action, part of the things
that we will cover about web performance.
You have a copy of the slides in
case you want to follow along.
And also you have a copy of that
book that I promised, okay, that for
future reference.
We are not going to go
over the book today.
So I have basically two goals today, okay?
The first one is to teach you
some new tricks that you didn't
know about web performance,
that's my first goal.
And the second goal, and probably
the most important one, is I want to make
you feel bad about what you are doing and
what you have been doing so far.
Okay, so remember that go.
So we are going to cover
a couple of things.
We're going to start with the problem,
so why web performance is important.
Metrics, so how metrics work,
where are the metrics available today,
how to measure performance?
The tools available, some of the tools,
there are many tools
that we will focus on.
The tools that we have available in the
browser, open source tools, free tools.
There are also more tools
that are more commercial.
Charts and diagrams, then we will get into
understanding browsers because we will
get advanced in this course.
That means that we need to understand
how browsers work to actually
understand why I will go
into apply some techniques.
We are going to over,
even if this is an advanced training,
we will go over the basic ideas anyway,
the basic optimizations and why, to start.
And then we will push this further,
I'm talking about performance,
we will push this further.
We'll, some kind of hacking tips.
We're going to see how to hack
performance with a lot of ideas.
And then at the end, we will cover
a couple of performance APIs,
probably not all of them.
But I will give you a quick overview, and
then you will have all the information
to get deeper on other APIs as well.
When we are talking about APIs,
I'm talking mostly about front-end APIs or
JavaScript APIs.
There are some exceptions there that
are also working with your back-end,
but most of the time
it's about the front-end.